---
term: ASSUME VALID
---

Configuration parameter in the majority client Bitcoin Core that allows a node that has just been initialized (but has not yet performed the IBD) to skip the verification of signatures for all transactions included in blocks prior to a certain given block. This famous block is defined by the imprint of its header, that is, its hash. The chosen block is renewed with each new version of Bitcoin Core. Upon its initialization, if the node has activated this parameter, it will therefore check the block header chain to find the branch with the most accumulated work. If the node detects the hash provided by Core in the branch it has chosen, it will omit the verification of signatures for the preceding blocks. Otherwise, the node will proceed with a traditional synchronization (IBD) to verify everything by itself.

The goal of Assume Valid is to accelerate the process of initial synchronization of a node without compromising security, assuming that the majority of the network has already validated these transactions in the past. The only real compromise for the node is that in the event of a previous theft of bitcoins, it will not be notified. However, it can still ensure the accuracy of the amount of bitcoins issued. Nodes continue the verification of signatures for transactions subsequent to the Assume Valid block. This approach is based on the assumption that if a transaction has been accepted by the network for long enough without dispute, it is unlikely to be fraudulent.