---
term: PASSPHRASE (BIP39)
---

An optional password that, when combined with the recovery phrase, provides an additional layer of security for deterministic and hierarchical Bitcoin wallets. HD wallets are typically generated from a recovery phrase consisting of 12 or 24 words. This recovery phrase is very important, as it allows for the restoration of all the keys in a wallet in case of loss. However, it constitutes a single point of failure (SPOF). If it is compromised, the bitcoins are at risk. This is where the passphrase comes in. It is an optional password, chosen by the user, that is added to the recovery phrase to enhance the wallet's security. Not to be confused with a PIN code or an ordinary password, the passphrase plays a role in the derivation of cryptographic keys.

It works in tandem with the recovery phrase, modifying the seed from which the keys are generated. Thus, even if someone obtains your recovery phrase, without the passphrase, they cannot access your funds. The use of a passphrase essentially creates a new wallet with distinct keys. Modifying (even slightly) the passphrase will generate a different wallet.

The passphrase is arbitrary and can be any combination of characters chosen by the user. The use of a passphrase offers several advantages. First, it reduces the risks associated with the compromise of the recovery phrase by requiring a second factor to access the funds. Next, it can be used strategically to create decoy wallets containing small amounts of bitcoins, in the case of physical coercion to steal your funds. Finally, its use is interesting when one wishes to control the randomness of the HD wallet seed generation. The passphrase must be sufficiently complex to resist brute force attacks and must be reliably saved. The loss of the passphrase can lead to the inability to access funds, just like the loss of the recovery phrase.

> ► *The passphrase is sometimes also referred to as: "two-factor seed phrase," "password," "seed extension," "extension word," or even "13th or 25th word." It is worth noting that there are two types of passphrases on Bitcoin. The most well-known is the one described above, which depends on BIP-39, and allows securing an entire HD wallet. However, BIP-38 had also specified a way to secure a unique private key with a passphrase. This second type of passphrase is almost no longer used today.*