---
term: BASE58CHECK
---

`Base58Check` is an encoding used in the Bitcoin system to represent Legacy receiving addresses and certain other data, such as extended keys, in the form of human-readable character strings. It is a variant of the `Base58` system, a positional representation of base 58 designed to minimize human transcription errors. It uses a set of 58 alphanumeric characters, consisting of the digits from `1` to `9`, uppercase letters from `A` to `Z` (excluding the letters `I` and `O` to avoid confusion with the digits `1` and `0`), and lowercase letters from `a` to `z` (excluding the letter `l` to avoid confusion with the digit `1`). `Base58Check` differs from `Base58` by adding a checksum. It is represented by a reduced version of a double `SHA256` hash of the original data (`SHA256d` or `HASH256`), at the end of the data encoded in `Base58`. When verifying, the checksum is recalculated and compared to the one that was added during encoding. If the two hashes match, the data is considered valid; otherwise, a corruption or transcription error is reported.

The use of `Base58Check` in Bitcoin addresses and keys offers several advantages. Firstly, it reduces human errors in transcription and reading by avoiding ambiguous characters. Secondly, it protects against typing errors by detecting and reporting errors through the checksum. Thirdly, the compact representation of data in `Base58Check` reduces the space required to store and share addresses and keys. The most recent receiving addresses (post-SegWit) have abandoned this `Base58Check` encoding for `Bech32` and `Bech32m` encodings, which have a more advanced checksum (with BCH codes).