---
term: MATURITY PERIOD
---

The necessary delay before a block reward can be spent by the miner who received it. This period is set at 100 blocks following the mined block, which equates to 101 confirmations for the coinbase transaction. During this time, the newly created bitcoins in the block reward are not spendable. The purpose of this rule is to avoid complications related to the use of bitcoins from a chain that could later be rendered obsolete. Indeed, it happens that valid blocks are eventually invalidated if another block, at the same height, is incorporated into a chain that has more work done on it. This phenomenon, known as reorganization, results in the creation of an "orphan block" or "stale block," thereby depriving the miner of the bitcoins contained in the abandoned block's coinbase. If the newly created bitcoins were immediately spendable, any transaction involving them could be retroactively canceled, causing losses for the holders of these bitcoins. Such a scenario could lead to a cascade of cancellations of otherwise valid transactions, thus affecting all users involved in that chain of transactions. The maturity period is therefore a preventative mechanism against this risk. By imposing a delay of 100 blocks before the newly issued bitcoins can be used, it prevents coins from blocks that are eventually invalidated from circulating and affecting other transactions. The probability of a reorganization occurring over 101 blocks is so low that it is considered negligible.